welcome to this new episode
we answer the question why not
I can go below f 3.5 or any
other value
many people ask me this question
worrying so that it is because of a
body malfunction
machine or a wrong setting
in reality the minimum opening value
of the diaphragm does not depend on any
a way from the camera body but it is one
purely mechanical question of the
goals indeed every goal has a
minimum aperture value
under which he cannot descend
simply because they can not
diaphragm cannot be opened more than one
certain size and if we see in the
objectives on the front in
general in the nomenclature we find
actually the data we are interested in
to understand what are the values ​​of
minimum aperture in the case
in fact of the zoom lenses
especially in the more economic range
the aperture value of the diaphragm e
minimum varies during zoom
yes we are going on focal lengths
bigger then actually if
let's look at the front
of the objective we see in this case
I'm looking at the 17 85 mm will be there
written 17 80 100 mm 12 points 4
retains 5,612 points 4 the indent 56
indicates the minimum aperture
at minimum focal length and at
maximum focal length ie it means
that at 17 mm my opening value
of the minimum aperture will be f4 while if
I'm going to zoom in on my value to 85 mm
minimum aperture will be
5.6 so in this with this
goal we have a little more face
economic compared to those series l
minimum aperture opening is
varying as I am zooming then
between 17 mm 85 mm from the button
losing a stop as the minimum value of
aperture of the objectives of
and more expensive than higher end
they have the characteristic of maintaining
always the minimum value of
opening of the diaphragm and therefore ci
they take away one more thought
and while if we go to see a
focal lens sets goals a
fixed focal length usually have the
characteristic of being very bright
and we can see it immediately even giving
will introduce as we have for example
in the case of 28 mm 28 mm
m 12 points 2.8 this means that the
focal length clearly 28 mm
while the minimum opening value of the
diaphragm and 2.8 who know a goal a
fixed focal not variation in this
meaning is a goal that is the goal
which I often recommend that even more
bright is the 50mm f 1.8 and in that case
there will be written 50 mm 12 points 1.8 in
that case we know that with
that goal we can go on photo
even brighter for this episode
that's all if you have any other questions
you want to see answers in this column
as always you can write me mini for
mail or in various online communities
or on the player 2 website
www.facebook.com thanks for saw
this episode and I'll see you at
next